the Obama and Biden families are about
to leave office after eight years and so
Sandra's over I Westfall and I sat down
with Michelle Obama and dr. Jill Biden
in Michelle Obama's office in the White
House all of these eight years I have
watched the relationship between Jill
Biden and Michelle Obama and been really
curious about it because we've never
seen first lady and second lady be so
obviously genuinely girlfriends are we
too far apart this is people at the
White House the final interview with
First Lady Michelle Obama and dr. Jill
Biden
[Music]
here we are in the first lady's office
welcome thanks for having us mrs. Obama
you have said of your friendship we've
been silly together we've cried a lot
can you tell us about your friendship
over the past few years how it has
evolved well it was it felt pretty
automatic it was the it was a election
night
well actually it started at the
convention no it started before that it
started when we we were announced at
remember it Springfield Illinois that's
what I that's right because we had both
been Senate spouses but you were in
Chicago I was in so down never came to
washing yeah and it was an instant bond
just just that moment I mean we just
knew we would be friends is there a
particular memory that you both have
from the joining forces initiative that
you're gonna carry with you ooh there's
some mini omelettes they are you know I
remember the baby shower that we did we
monastic right oh yeah we were military
moms and they all have at the voice this
summer oh that was good that was a lot
of fun to be on set yeah that was fun um
gosh we've done so many things but it's
our conversations with spouses yeah
because they I say this again and again
that if ever I'm feeling sorry for
myself
or I'm feeling down spending some time
talking with the men and women who are
the spouses of our service members that
makes you understand that there is no
problem that you can't handle because
they do it all with grace and with
dignity they don't complain I didn't
know if they were really close friends I
didn't know if they were best friends in
the world and it turns out they have an
incredibly close relationship and the
thing that struck me about both of them
is they're both very very funny
what's the first lady like as a travel
companion
she's fun she's a month but I think our
steps get along well together and we
just get on the plane and have a little
wine yeah I was gonna say it's done
there are no more rules yeah like we put
on so music Jill is a often time she's
grading papers which is always funny
because I forget oh yeah you have a day
job she pulls out her papers and she's
so diligent I was like look at you you
have a job telling me about what it's
like what has it been like so she's
always got papers to grade so when she
finishes her homework then we can we can
talk okay we can do girl Tom yeah it's
like even if we don't see one another
for maybe a month because we're both
different places we get together it's
like you know that friend that you see
like a couple years later it's like you
never admit you know that's what this is
I think it's been an incredibly tough
two years for your family what is it
meant to have this relationship getting
you through that time well Michelle has
been truly wonderful and so through the
tough times I mean she she knew it was
going on most people didn't and she was
always caring and asking how we were
doing how the kids were doing
how about was doing but she and Barack
knew above all I mean you know what
every week was like and then when Bo
died and they came over to the house and
came to the funeral and and it's
continued I mean every time how you
doing you know how are things going how
are the kids doing
and with things going on in Michelle's
life but from you know how's your mom
doing it so it's it's more than just us
it's our extended family the whole
country was struck when Beau Biden died
everybody felt the heaviness of that
grief it was autumn at
and I'd not been able to talk to dr.
Biden about that before this interview
and it was a very emotional moment she
was very grateful for the support that
she had received and I think it went
both ways I think there were probably
things that Michelle Obama went through
that we don't even know about that Jill
supported her on but as they were
talking about that I did think you know
I'm gonna do now like where do we go
with this interview now to then ask
about the relationship with the
husband's felt like a decent segue we
have to ask the bromance between your
husband's oh oh my god do when they
leave I know they're gonna be eating ice
cream somewhere I'm sure girl funding
dollars together against each other side
so is that real are those memes real
like that the two of them not the words
those are made up work I couldn't get
them to admit that Joe Biden really
wanted to leave whoopee cushions all
over the house for Donald Trump but I
tried but you know what that has become
a truly beautiful friendship
and I don't think we've really seen a
lot of that and especially in politics
but I think they really love one another
mm-hmm they do they do just like him do
they have their lunches together and
wacom somebody's like a head lunch with
Joe yeah yeah and that's you know and
there's real joy yeah fact that I got to
have lunch with Joe and yeah um but yeah
you didn't you missed the dinner we had
a dinner for the other night because you
were working I work but they were very
touching then because I think for um
Barack having somebody who's like the
big brother um we won't call him uncle
but because you know or older or older
no it's like the big brother in this
journey somebody that he respects and
admires it's it's the best decision that
Barack has made as president
the united states pick and Joe and I
Biden stay as our partners in this
journey so that's real you know and I'm
sure there'll be a lot of golfing Joe
doesn't golf as much as Barack or does
he yeah he's sorted as there could be a
lot of golfing p.m. and I am so we'll
get together and we'll sit by the fire
and drink and then they can go suffer
you get a lot of drink no so before we
left them we did ask them to take a look
back at some of their photo album from
the year and show them some pictures
from the last eight years so we could
get their memories on these kind of
behind the scenes moments this is the
Vipers we were cheering on the Vipers
can you imagine being in a rec league
gym in in Maryland with the
vice-president of the president the
first and second spouses all the kids
and the grandkids all in one gym with
our security yell to hear it even people
on the team yelling at a group of I
think maybe probably six fifth or sixth
graders shoot oh no I will say had alot
of decorum going on
this was one of the games where we were
all there yeah but Barack coached the
Vipers and maisy was the the the Biden's
granddaughter it was the star and it
continues to be one of the star admins
at the school so it was probably some
shot mr. know if it was Maisy she made
the she'd make me she's probably
Sasha missing the show was this the
second election night that was yes
victory night at yeah yeah because I
remember remember the outfit and the
other by there we're like are you ready
if you ready to do this again hit four
more years yeah I remember this night I
do too it's a lot of excitement yeah
okay one more one more
oh this was the caregivers summit to me
this reminds me of how important this
issue is and how it crosses party lines
because we have Elizabeth Dole oh that's
right yet he's right yet and as when
Carter they all came together for this
event because each of us in our poses
and sort of official life has continued
to work on these issues Laura Bush is
the same thing we just did an event
together we've done several events
together around military family so you
know again this is one of the special
parts about serving in this role you get
to connect it to the military community
and you never want to let go you just
brought in and you know that you have to
continue the fight and these amazing
women have been champions on this issue
far longer than I know I have and we
hope to be I don't know I always tell
Rosalyn I'm not sure if I want to be
working as long as she is I let sellers
slow down you're making us all look
Rosalynn Carter ruins everything
that's a funny line thanks Rosalynn well
I want to tell you that thank you so
much because you both of your families
have been exceptionally generous in
letting people magazine tell your
stories as people living in this Bob
so I mean we were just thinking I to go
back and count I think we've done 14 or
15 interviews with you guys and to be
entrusted with your family's stories has
been a great honor so gorgeous people
yeah in the end so it's perfect people
pretty regular but thank you thank you
[Music]